FEATURES.md, before:

## Build changes

## Code changes

Added `int64_t mip_total_lp_iterations` to `HighsCallbackDataOut` and modified accessor function

`Highs::writeSolution` and `Highs::writeBasis` now being done via `HighsIO` logging, so can be redirected to logging callback.

Introduced `const double kHighsUndefined` as value of undefined values in a user solution. It's equal to `kHighsInf`

Added `Highs::setSolution(const HighsInt num_entries, const HighsInt* index, const double* value);` to allow a sparse primal solution to be defined. When a MIP is solved to do this, the value of (new) option `mip_max_start_nodes` is used for `mip_max_nodes` to avoid excessive cost

Added options `write_presolved_model_to_file` and `write_presolved_model_file` so that presolved model can be written via a command line option

Added `Highs::feasibilityRelaxation` to solve the problem of minimizing a (possibly weighted) sum of (allowable) infeasibilities in an LP/MIP.

Added Python utility `examples/plot_highs_log.py` (due to @Thell) to visualise progress of the MIP solver.

Added minimal documentation of solvers and how simplex variants can be run

Methods receiving matrix data where only small values are explicit zeros (so removed internally) are now silent and return HighsStatus::kOk (since internal matrix is exact)

Now multiplying by pre-computed reciprocals rather than performing divisions in loops in simplex solver: LP performance improvement ~2.5%

Commit message:

Added more to Features.md

FEATURES.md, after:

## Build changes

## Code changes

Added `int64_t mip_total_lp_iterations` to `HighsCallbackDataOut` and modified accessor function

`Highs::writeSolution` and `Highs::writeBasis` now being done via `HighsIO` logging, so can be redirected to logging callback.

Introduced `const double kHighsUndefined` as value of undefined values in a user solution. It's equal to `kHighsInf`

Added `Highs::setSolution(const HighsInt num_entries, const HighsInt* index, const double* value);` to allow a sparse primal solution to be defined. When a MIP is solved to do this, the value of (new) option `mip_max_start_nodes` is used for `mip_max_nodes` to avoid excessive cost

Added options `write_presolved_model_to_file` and `write_presolved_model_file` so that presolved model can be written via a command line option

Added `Highs::feasibilityRelaxation` to solve the problem of minimizing a (possibly weighted) sum of (allowable) infeasibilities in an LP/MIP.

Added Python utility `examples/plot_highs_log.py` (due to @Thell) to visualise progress of the MIP solver.

Added minimal documentation of solvers and how simplex variants can be run

Methods receiving matrix data where only small values are explicit zeros (so removed internally) are now silent and return `HighsStatus::kOk` (since internal matrix is exact)

Now multiplying by pre-computed reciprocals rather than performing divisions in loops in simplex solver: LP performance improvement ~2.5%

Primal and dual residuals after IPM and cuPDLP-C are checked, and corrections applied to row solution and column duals

`Highs::passModelName` added to allow name to be given to the incumbent model

Memory leaks in cuPDLP-C fixed

Bug fixed in MIP presolve
